Israel continues its mass mobilization
of troops hundreds of thousands on the
southern border with Gaza the widespread
expectation that a ground offensive
across the frontier may be coming but
the UN is calling for essential supplies
to be allowed into the territory where
the humanitarian situation is
deteriorating rapidly as Israel enforces
a Complete Siege the very latest from
right across the region with our
International editor Jeremy boen in the
southern town of biri
the Israelis have made a lot of progress
in getting their troops prepared for
that moment if and when and probably
when the order comes to invade
Gaza in the fields and Farms On the
Border wire Israel's combat soldiers are
creating jumping off points to invade
Gaza late this afternoon at kibuts B
regular units and some of more than
300,000 mobilized reservists were
preparing for the order to move in that
most Israelis believe will
come the buildup that we're seeing here
is certainly the clearest evidence that
I've witnessed that Israel is preparing
for a ground operation in Gaza and if
you add this to the formation of a war
cabinet you can see the direction they
must be going in
Israel's allies are gathering Anthony
blinken the US Secretary of State is
flying in overnight from Washington
American Support includes weapons and
moving an aircraft carrier battle group
closer to deter Iran's allies in Lebanon
from joining the war the United States
has Israel's back we have the back of
the Israeli people we have their back
today we'll have a tomorrow we will have
it every day James cleverly Britain's
foreign secretary was already here in in
Israel at a Frontline town near Gaza I'm
not going to speculate on what support
we might want to give I'm here to find
out I'm here to find out what practical
support we can give to
Israel the foreign secretary was hustled
into a shelter when the sirens went
Israel has the four square support of
its allies after the massacres
perpetrated by
Hamas in their safe rooms millions of
Israelis are praying waiting often
frightened now that assumptions they had
about their safety have crumbled their
government says what it's doing in Gaza
is defending them but only a few miles
from this family in ashalon Israel's
Onslaught raises questions about whether
it's breaking the laws of
war in Gaza Israel has caused immense
damage in only 5 Days International
humanitarian law obliges belligerence to
protect protect civilian lives Israel
says all this is legitimate self-defense
against Hamas but it's also cut off
supplies of water food Fuel and power to
more than 2 million people and killed
hundreds of
civilians outside the main hospital in
Gaza City Allah alfan sits with the
bodies of his entire close family they'd
moved twice to escape the air strike
until one hit their borrowed apartment
at 4 this
morning I've lost my father my brother
my uncle two cousins two other family
members and my pregnant wife I'm the
only
Survivor he said we've done nothing
Israel insists Hamas is to blame for the
suffering of Palestinians but
accusations that Israel is answering the
war crimes of Hamas with ones of its own
have
started back in Israel videos are still
emerging from the Hamas attack last
Saturday security cameras showed two
women trying to escape a Hamas
gunman somehow he misses
them armed Israelis
arrive and the man who wanted to murder
them either Retreats or is
killed and at AAL hospital near Tel Aviv
signs of the tension in Israel a
visiting government Minister gets a
furious
reception a nurse yells they've been
helped by every kind of Civilian but the
government has given them
nothing the military buildup might
steady Israeli nerves and the defense
minister said tonight we will wipe Hamas
off the face of the Earth Jeremy in BBC
News in southern
Israel well Palestinian media say the
only Power Plant still operating in the
Gaza Strip has now stopped working after
running out of fuel and as we've been
hearing there are more than 200 targets
that have been hit by the Israelis in
air strikes overnight and these images
show the level of Destruction this is
the remal area before the strikes and
this a light image of the same
neighborhood which came through
yesterday and has been located by our
colleagues at BBC verify more than a
thousand people are now known to have
died and a quarter of a million have
been forced from their
homes well Gaza is of course Under Siege
and Communications are extremely
difficult but we can talk now to our
correspondent rushi Abu alouf who's live
in Gaza City for us tonight rushi just
tell us what the last few days have been
like living in an area under siege and
under constant bombardment from the
air yeah I can see I have been
witnessing the heaviest air strike in my
20 years covering of this story it was
by far the heaviest I've been witnessing
what the destruction in this remel
neighborhood it's the for a very long
time this neighborhood is been the safe
heaven for most of the G and most of the
streets in this neighborhood was was
destroyed I was among the families who
were like suffering on during that days
but the humanitarian side of the story
is is is moving in a very significant
way when we have when when like two
million people lost the electricity
today we are talking about the essential
services such as Medical Services Water
Supplies Food Supplies are being
suspended because of that the
humanitarian Corridor for
letting food and medicine and fuel into
to Gaza is a must is a call from every
Palestinians that why we understand
tonight from a senior Egyptian official
that Egypt is working closely with other
countries and contacting Hamas and
Israel to try to find a a draft of six
hour to allow goods and fuel to come
from Egypt into
Gaza and rushi what about the suggestion
the possibility of a ground Invasion we
heard from Jeremy boen that the more
troops are massing on the border with
Gaza uh acrossing Israel how are people
feeling about the possibility that there
could be a ground
Invasion this is the most worry for the
people people in Gaza are fear this
because they have lived through a ground
Invasion before back in 2014 we have
seen Israeli tanks in refugee camp we
are talking about a camp in the North
like when 100,000 people live in a very
small tiny piece of land if people are
already ex exhausted by 3,000 air
strikes and 1100 people died o only
from from what soldiers and tanks are
engaging in Street to to Street and
house to house fighting with Hamas in
Gaza with two million people living in
this tiny piece of
land okay we'll end it there rushi Abdul
Al thank you very much indeed for
joining us live from Gaza where
Communications are obviously incredibly
difficult to establish and to maintain